Main steps to include a regulatory protein in the database, following the strategy previously described in  (31):

a)	2059 proteins were identified in Swissprot release-2024_01 with the following keywords: Transcription gene regulation; dna-binding; repression; activation; 
repressor; activator; and regulator, considering the OR conditional. In addition, we used the filters: “anti-sigma; sigma” with the NOT conditional; 
and constraining the search to “bacteria or archaea” (taxonomy filter). Finally, we selected those reviewed records with the highest annotation score of 5 
(Reviewed by SwissProt).

b)	650 proteins were retrieved from specialized databases, such as and additional databases, such as CollecTF (27), RegulomePA database (28); 
RegulonDB (29); and Protein Data Bank (30). These proteins were mapped into the initial dataset of TFs.

c)	275 Proteins with significant homology to non-TFs were excluded from the collection. To this end, BLAST searches against a nonredundant (NR) database at
NCBI, with E-values of 10−3 and a coverage of at least 70%, were considered. In this step, we identified those proteins with not known regulatory roles, 
such as peptidases, lipolytic enzymes, integrases, and transporters. We also searched into the references associated with the protein collection to 
exclude manually proteins with annotations beyond gene regulation.

d)	A total of 1784 proteins were considered as TFs and included in the collection if they have any of the 21  following experimental categories 
(included in the website, section Experimental evidences) classified into strong and weak evidences: Assay of Protein Purified to Homogeneity; 
Binding of Purified Proteins;  ChIP-seq;  Inferred from Direct Assay;  mRNA expression levels measured by qRT-PCR technique; One Hybrid Reporter system; 
Primer Extension Analysis;  Proteomic studies; Protein structural determination; Fur titration assay; Site Mutation; Binding of Cellular Extracts; 
Gene expression analysis; Author Statement; Inferred from Expression Pattern; Inferred from mutant phenotype;Inferred from Genetic interaction; 
Reaction Blocked in Mutant; Microarrays; High throughput transcription initiation; Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE).

e)	The complete set of sequence proteins included in ENTRAF was analyzed by considering by InterProScan-5.73-104.0 with the option -pa (pathways) - 
goterms (GO assignments), -pfam (Pfam-37.2), and supfam (SUPERFAMILY 1.75) (domain assignments).

f)	Finally, to classify functionally the collection of TFs, we followed a similar strategy previously described by Cortes-Avalos et al (2021) 
associated with the AraC/XylS family. In this regard, an exhaustive association between the TF and its regulated genes was achieved together with the 
GO annotation directly obtained from protein records and functional annotations of regulatory and binding mechanisms to the Gene Ontology (GO). For instance, 
the curator assigned  “nucleotide metabolism” to PyrR of B. subtilis because this TF regulates transcriptional attenuation of the pyrimidine nucleotide (pyr) operon.  
A similar way was displayed for all the records. Despite this simple classification, some of these proteins are able to regulate the expression of proteins involved in 
different activities than those previously suggested. 
